Real-time payments adoption in different shapes and forms and the associated fraud that becomes almost irreversible drives buyers to seek for efficient fraud mitigation tools for these payment options.
The expansion of IAM solutions to include fraud protection and/or the expansion of fraud solutions to include IAM capabilities.
Cyber fraud fusion – Organizations are moving to shared technology services models to improve collaboration and information sharing between cyber, fraud and AML teams.
GenAI is the most recent driver of 50%+ increases in fraud rates in that it enables bad actors to commit fraud more convincingly and at scale.
Consequently, the demand for sophisticated fraud controls becomes imperative to safeguard against evolving fraud methodologies.
The rise of real-time payments and the associated increase in the attack surface presents new challenges in fraud prevention, necessitating a shift towards more agile, real-time fraud detection methods.
Banks are also grappling with the complexities of synthetic identity fraud and the vulnerabilities in physical biometrics authentication, underscoring the need for robust, multi-layered fraud detection and authentication strategies.
Ability to tackle new types of fraud and the emerging regulatory frameworks around them e.g Scams/APP fraud.
Messaging of the reality of fraud and fraud management isn’t making it up to C-suite, and executives don’t understand the problem well enough.
Capturing accurate fraud outcomes for authorized fraud for model improvement.
This is because synthetic data can help overcome challenges with personal data, such as collecting and cleansing data (which is difficult for many organizations).
Combining pre and post-login account fraud detection, as well as multiple threat vectors and multiple business use cases across many verticals.
Sending and Receiving FI fraud liability for scams will accelerate Fis and vendors to better detect scams/ APP fraud Generative AI and LLM.
Utilizing unstructured data Flexible no code architectures for deploying and finetuning fraud rules.
Everything from aiding customer support or identifying training and support documentation to assessing and identifying new rules, parameters or report configuration to highlight important aspects of each business, uniquely.
