Organizational misalignment. Messaging of the reality of fraud and fraud management isn’t making it up to C-suite, and executives don’t understand the problem well enough. Organizations continue to increase loss budgets instead of investing in fraud detection and prevention technology.
Budget prioritization. Often, the people who hold the budget for EFM projects prioritize investments to initiatives aligned to revenue generation, not loss prevention.
Crowded industry. Too many fraud management vendors with different value propositions and overpromising on capabilities makes it difficult for buyers to differentiate among solutions.
Time taken to deploy the solution can be long as AI/ML model development on historic data takes a long time. 
Vendors covered scope VS actual requirements/needs. 
Solution Cost and Actual cost of ownership. 
Continuously evolving risks requiring adaptive solutions, including deployment of technology to execute fraud (deepfakes, generative AI, Bots ..etc.). 
Complexity of Integration and customization. 
Data quality and legacy systems adaptation.
Sound knowledge to appreciate effectiveness of machine learning or smart AI before purchasing.
Legacy systems as a baggage, while trying to integrate new AI capabilities.
Stronger regulator oversight, resulting in increasing workload.
The rise of real-time payments and the associated increase in the attack surface presents new challenges in fraud prevention, necessitating a shift towards more agile, real-time fraud detection methods. 
Banks are also grappling with the complexities of synthetic identity fraud and the vulnerabilities in physical biometrics authentication, underscoring the need for robust, multi-layered fraud detection and authentication strategies.
Another expected increase is in synthetic ID fraud, stemming from stolen or fabricated personal information. It’s difficult to detect, causes significant losses and it becomes more complex by the lack of consistent tracking of synthetic identity fraud.
Differentiating between vendors and understanding their true capabilities and what is just marketing speak.
Analytical bench strength (or lack thereof) is a major issue for banks. This materialises as a reduced internal capability to maintain rules-based fraud detection systems at optimum effectiveness and efficiency.
Minimizing intervention rate whilst still maintaining high rates of fraud detection.
Capturing accurate fraud outcomes for authorized fraud for model improvement.
Impending reimbursement regulations designed to protect consumers.
Continuation of trend to more cloud-based solutions.
Ability to build and operationalize organizations own AI and ML alongside that of platform providers and third parties.
Ability to tackle new types of fraud and the emerging regulatory frameworks around them e.g Scams/APP fraud.
Drive to more explainable models and improved model-governance.
Increased consumer protection increases moral hazard.
The market is complex and understanding how each vendor might perform is very challenging. To counter this, we encourage the buyer conducts a proof-of-value in which we build a custom deep learning model on their sample data, and then can detail exactly how much we would be able to save them in terms of fraud and compliance automation.   In addition, we offer an ROI guarantee, ensuring that the vast majority of the value we generate accrues to the client and their respective customers.
Identifying solutions that give broad protection against fraud across multiple points. e.g., pre-account login, post-account login
Distinguishing between vendors and identifying covered use cases.
Identifying ROI on fraud detection solutions.
Effective management of chosen fraud solutions, especially with regards to lowering the cost of deployment and expansion to new areas and managing multiple threat vectors (card fraud, account opening fraud, gift card fraud, return fraud, withdrawal fraud, site abuse) within consolidated solutions.
In any given organization, digital attacks span the entire organization. It is not the responsibility of only one group. HUMAN has observed five buying centers that must solve digital fraud and abuse in any typical organization. These groups typically do not work together to defend the organization across the digital fraud landscape. 
Ad platforms teams: Need to deliver fraud-free advertising inventory to be delivered to the correct target market and ensure that the ads are optimized for high quality and not “heavy” ads.
Publishing teams: Need to ensure there is no digital fraud that may impact the experience by injecting malware or fraudulent advertisements. 
Anti Fraud teams: Focus on prevention of fraud across the end customer digital journey resulting in financial fraud and risk borne from ATO attacks and synthetic (fake) account creation, amongst other threat vectors.
Application protection teams: Focus on safeguarding the application against fraudulent attacks and detecting emerging threats that may impact the operation preventing scraping and data exfiltration.
Marketing teams: Fraudulent lead generation skews marketing analytics and results in contaminated data systems. 40% of marketing teams see fraudulent and suspicious behavior on the websites and campaigns.
HUMAN helps these groups defend against digital fraud across the entire organization.
Maintaining constant high fraud detection rate.
Budget.
Market fragmentation and the growing number of solutions. While there is some consolidation, the number of players in the market is growing every year. Buyers are going to face large RFI/RFP efforts and struggle to weed out solutions who use technical language to mask real capabilities. Additionally, solutions, like the competition, are fragmented where point solutions are commonplace and require buyers to vet multiple providers for a single, end to end solution. This creates operational challenges and technical complexities that buyers must consider. 
The effort to integrate and implement an EFM solution creates a high barrier for replacement.  This leads to great difficulty in vendor assessment, essentially it is hard to compare objectively.
Scams and Money Mules: Research shows 59% of new account and authorized push payment fraud (APP) involves mules, and they’re hard to catch because it’s easy for money mule transactions to slip through traditional payment monitoring methods. 
Liability Shifts:  With stricter reporting requirements and liability ownership updates, such as the UK Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) liability shift, sending and receiving FIs will need to grapple with authorized fraud reimbursement.
GenAI-driven scams – fighting AI with AI.  
Performance and Scale. 
Time to value, including that on data integrations.
Reducing operational costs, including reduction of time on alerts management, investigations, regulatory filings, claims management etc.
The market is full of niche solutions addressing specific use cases while an holistic approach to fraud detection is required.
Organizational structure sometimes creates siloed approaches for fraud detection when fraud detection responsibility is split between different teams that don’t share knowledge and fail to look at fraud detection holistically.
Customer authentication/Fraud/Different owners to different digital channels etc.
Orchestration of data signals and authentication mix.
Detecting Fraudulent money mules.
Tailored models & risk signals for payment receipt.
Integrating signals from multiple detection layers together – often, security, identity, and fraud tools aren’t naturally integrated and work in isolation. Organizations rightly want to make these tools work together to get to better certainty in risk scoring, but this can be very challenging.
Teams have a hard time measuring the ROI of different protection layers, and must deal with overlapping value props across layers (e.g. bot detection may be partially covered on the security layer, but frequently not fully).
Having a great understanding of what the offering is, integration times, and commitments to meeting SLA's.
Model deployment, governance and appraisal.
change management when adopting new tech; budgets; shrinking workforce; data - availability, curation, type (structured, unstructured, images, etc.).
Integration complexity and system migration.
Understanding impact and accuracy before using the product.
Lack of readily available industry insights and best practices. 
Ability of fraudsters to innovate with new technology faster than the institutions trying to monitor them. 
Data quality and availability to support finding fraud effectively (irrespective of any vendor chosen).
Staffing – especially post-pandemic and with the need to hire high end and narrow skills such as data science. Irrespective of operational cost constraints, we have feedback from clients who struggle to hire adequately skilled staff for their fraud programs. 
Efficiency and effectiveness of solutions – getting to the point of proving that they can do more with less.
